Travelling by Plane

No wonder that one of the latest means of travelling is travelling by plane. Nowadays people mostly travel by air. It combines both comfort and speed and you will reach the place of destination very quickly. No doubt, travelling by air is the most convenient and comfortable means of travelling. But if you are airsick the flight may seem not so nice to you. Unfortunately sometimes the flights are delayed because of unfavourable weather conditions, and one more inconvenience is jet-lag.

Before boarding the plane you must check in at the airport. Passengers are requested to arrive at the airport one hour before departure time on international flights and half an hour on domestic flights. You must register your tickets, weigh in and register the luggage.

The economy class limitation is 20 kg. First-class passengers are allowed 30 kg. Excess luggage must be paid for. Passengers are permitted, to take only some personal belongings with them into the cabin. These items include handbags, brief-cases or attache cases, umbrellas, coats and souvenirs bought at the tax-free shops at the airport. Each passenger is given a boarding pass to be shown at the departure gate and again to the stewardess when boarding the plane.

Before the plane takes off the stewardess gives you all the information about the flight, the speed and altitude. She asks you to fasten the belts and not to smoke. She will take care of you during the flight and will help you to get comfortable in your seat. Inside the cabins the air is always fresh and warm. The captain will welcome you on board, tell you all about the flight and the interesting places you are flying over. During the flight you can take a nap or have a chat, you can read and relax. In some planes you can watch video or listen to the music.

When the plane is landing or taking off you have an opportunity to enjoy the wonderful scenery and landscapes. While travelling by plane you fly past various villages and cities at the sight of which realize how majestic and tremendous our planet is. Do not forget your personal belongings when leaving the plane.

Landing formalities and customs regulation are about the same in-all countries. While still onboard the plane the passenger is given an arrival card to fill in, he fills in (in block letters) his name in full, country of residence, permanent address, purpose and length of visit; and address in the country he is visiting. After the passenger has disembarked, officials will examine (check) his passport and visa (to see if they are in order).

In some countries they will check the passenger's certificate of vaccination. When these formalities have been completed the passenger goes to the Customs for an examination of his luggage. The passenger is required to fill in a customs declaration form. He must list all dutiable articles. Personal belongings may be brought in duty-free.

Here is a partial list of prohibited articles: firearms, drugs, in some countries — meat products, fresh fruit and vegetables. The Customs inspector may ask you to open your bags for inspection. After you are through with all customs formalities he will put a stamp on each piece of luggage.
